JDBC -  Java Database Connectivity
Java classes and interfaces are located in the java.sql and javax.sql packages.
There are several classes and interfaces encountered when writing JDBC code.
Including:
    - DriverManager class
        - used to load JDBC drivers and for establishing connections to a database
        - has the getConnection(String url, String user, String password) method
    - DataSource interface - for retrieving connections, an alernative to DriverManager
    - Connection interface - represents a physical connection with a database.
        - can be used to create statements with the following methods:
            - createStatement() creates a Statement object
            - prepareStatement(String sql)
            - prepareCall(String sql)
        - can be used to manage database transactions with the following methods:
            - setAutoCommit(boolen autoCommit)
            - rollback(Savepoint savepoint)
            - commit()
            - setSavepoint(String name)
        - needs to be closed after use:
            -close()
            -isClosed()
    -SQLException class
    -Statement interface - used for executing static SQL statement
        -RETURN_GENERATED_KEYS 
        -execute(String sql, int autoGeneratedKeys) method
        -executeQuery(String sql)
        -executeUpdate(String sql) -execute given SQL statement. 
                                    Maybe INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE.
    -PreparedStatement interface
    -CallableStatement interface - used to excecute stored procedures
                                    and extends PreparedStatement
    -ResultSet interface - represents data returned from the database
                            - has next() method
Data Access Objects(DAO) are a design pattern commonly used in Java applications for managing
the interaction between the application logic and the data persistence layer.
DAOs provide an abstraction layer that separates the business logic from the underlying access
mechanisms such as databases or APIs
The interface allows for no direct relation to the data resource access mechanism.
This is a form of Abstraction from OOP to hide the implementation details of our
DAO class.
There are two primary steps to applying DAO design pattern to an application:
    - Create a DAO interface with the desired CRUD operation methods
    - Create subclasses to implement the interface


Composite Key
It is a combination of columns used to uniquely identify a table.
It can also be a combination of candidate keys.

Normalization
    It is the process of efficiently organizing data in a database
    Two main objectives are: 
        - eliminate redundant data
        - ensure that data dependencies make sense(store only relational data in tables)

    Normal forms
        - First Normal Form(1 NF)
            -It is conclusive of a relational database
            - Doesn't allow hierarchies of data values
            - Eleminate composite columns
            - Needs a primary Key
            - Composite columns holds multiple data values
        - Second Normal Form(2NF)
         - Deals with the elimination of circular dpendencies from a relation,
         - A relation is in 2NF if it is in 1 N F and if every non-key attribute is
          completely dependent on the Primary Key.
          - Non key attributes is any column that cannot be used to uniquely identify
          the table
        - Third Normal Form
            - Deals with the elimination of non-key attributes that do not describe the
                Primary Key
        - Boyce-Codd Normal Form
            - It is an extension to the Third Normal Form
            - It is also known as the 3.5 Normal Form.
            - For any dependecy A -> B, A should be a super key.
                - A should be A Key attribute if B is a Key attribute.
Multiplicity vs Cardinality
    - Multiplicity is the possible range of associations between one entity and another
    - Cardinality is the specific number of associations

Data Modeling
    -It is the conceptual representation of the data objects, data object relationships and data
    object rules.
    Relational data models
        - Entity Relationship Diagram(ERD)
            - Is is a graphical representation depicting the relationships among data objects within
             a database
CROSS JOIN
    - CROSS JOIN/CARTESIAN JOIN returns all possible row combinations from each table
SELF JOIN is a SQL statement which is used to intersect our join table in the database itself.
     - Used when we need to compare data within the same table(Unary relationship)
INTERSECT is not available in MySQL use INNER JOIN or IN.

EXCEPT - It returns disctinct rows from the first set that do not appear in the second result set
        You can replace EXCEPT with MINUS in PostgreSQL or Oracle
UNION ALL accepts duplicates

Views
    - It is a virtual tables based on the result of a SELECT QUERY

Indexes
In SQL, an index is a database object that provides a fast and efficient way to look up and retrieve data from a table
    Structure
     - An index is typically a data structure that stores a sorted or hashed subset of the data in a table
     Types of Indexes
        - Clustered Index
        The rows of the table are sorted in the order of the index key
        - Non Clustered Index
        The index ley contains a sorted order of the data, but the actual data are stored
        separately from the index.
        
        Advantages
        - Improved query performance
        - Faster Joins
        - Unique Constraints
        Disadvantages
        - Overhead on Write Operations
        - Storage Overhead

HTTP

Http - Stands for HyperText Transfer Protocol
    Server - computer or collection of computers that is the destination
    of the HTTP call.
    - Http is a Protocol that is referred to as stateless(the server doesn't retain any data about the 
    request)
    - Has two parts: the request and the response.
    - The client creates the request. The server requests the response.
    - The request holds the following information:
        - The method being used
        - The URL where the target is
        - What version of the HTTP is being used
        - Optional information to help the server with the request(called headers)
        - For some methods, a body which contains some resource
    - The response will hold the following information:
        - What version of HTTP is being used
        - A status code reflecting the outcome of the request
        - A status message which is shorthand and less descriptive than the status code
        - Optional information to details what happened with the request(headers)
        - For some methods, a body which contains some resource.
    - HTTP defines a set of request methods to indicate the desired action to be 
    performed for a given resource(HTTP verbs). They include:
        - GET
            - Only requests data. It is considered a safe and idempotent method.
        - POST
            - Used to send data to the API server to create or update a resource.
            - It is non-idempotent.
        - PUT
            - Similar to POST. Used to send data to the API server to create or
            update a resource.
            - It is idempotent.
            - Generally, a PUT request will repond with a 201(Created), if the request modifies
            existing resource, the server will return a 200(OK) or 204(No Content)
        - PATCH
           - Similart to PUT and POST, the difference is that you only apply partial modifications
           to the resource.
           - The difference between PATCH and PUT, is that PATCH request is non-idempotent
        - DELETE
        - HEAD
            - HEAD requests are useful for checking what a GET request will return before actually
            making a GET request.
        - OPTIONS
            - This request should return data describing what other methods and Operations
            the server supports at the given URL.
        - TRACE 
            - Used to echo the received request back to the client.
            - It allows the client to see what changes or additions have been made by intermediate
            servers.
    HTTP Status Codes
    - Responses are grouped in five classes"
        - Information Responses (100-199)
         100 Continue
         101 Switching Protocols
         102 Processing (WebDAV)
         103 Early Hints
        - Successful reponses(200-299)
          200 OK        205 Reset Content
          202 Created   206 Partial Content
          203 Non Authoritative Information     207 Multi-Status(WebDAV)
          204 No Content                        208 Already Reported(WebDAV)
          226IM Used(HTTP Delta Encoding)
        -Redirection messages(300-399)
          300 Multiple Choices          305 Use Proxy Deprecated
          301 Moved permanently         306 unused
          302 Found                     307 Temporary Redirect
          303 See other                 308 Permanent Redirect
          304 Not Modified
        -Client error response(400-499)
           400 Bad request              404 Not Found
           401 Unauthorized             405 Method Not Allowed
           402 Payment Required Experimental    406 Not Acceptable
           403 Forbidden                407 Proxy Authentication Required
           408 Request Timeout          415 Unsupported Media Type
           409 Conflict                 416 Range Not Satisfiable
           410 Gone                     417 Expectation Failed
           411 Length Required          421 Misdirected Request
           412 Precondition Failed      422 Unprocessable Entity(WebDAV)
           413 Payload Too Large        423 Locked(WebDAV)
           414 URI Too Long             424 Failed Dependency
           425 Too Early Experimental
           426 Upgrade Required
           428 Precondition Required
           429 Too Many Requests
           431 Request Header Fields Too Large
           452 Unavailable For Legal Reasons
        -Server error response(500-599)
            500 Internal Server Error
            501 Not Implemented
            502 Bad Gateway
            503 Service Unavailable
            504 Gateway Timeout
            505 HTTP Version Not Supported
            506 Variant Also Negotiates
            507 Insufficient Storage(WebDAV)
            508 Loop Detected(WebDAV)
            510 Not Extended
            511 Network Authentication Required