SELECT [ALL | DISTINCT]
    select_expr
    [into_option]
    [FROM table_ref]
    [WHERE where_condition]
    [GROUP BY {col_name | expr | position }]
    [HAVING having_condition]
    [ORDER BY {col_name | expr | position}]
        [ASC | DESC]
    [LIMIT {[offset,] row_count | row_count OFFSET offset}];

You can set aliases for the tables:
    SELECT my_value as value, my other_value as other FROM my_table;

The filtering clause of a SELECT statement is a WHERE clause that
defines how selected rows are filtered from the tablle. The WHERE
clause use logical operators to select records that meet specific conditions.

OPERATORS           MEANING
AND                 true if both boolean expressions evaluate to true
IN                  true if the operand is included in a list of expressions
NOT                 reverses the values of any boolean expressions
OR                  true if either or both boolean expressions is true
LIKE                true if the operand matches a pattern
BETWEEN             true if the operand falls within a range

GROUP BY is used with aggregate functions like count, max, min.
HAVING clause is used to filter out groups that meet a condition.
ORDER BY clause is used to sort the returned records by a specific column.
    The records can be ordered either ASC(ascending) or DESC(descending)
LIMIT clause restricts number of records returned from the SELECT statement
OFFSET clause specifies from which record position to start counting from.
    It is often used in conjuction with the LIMIT clause.

SQL QUERIES
    The most widely used MySQL queries include:
        CREATE database
        USE database
        CREATE table
        INSERT values
        UPDATE record
        DELETE record
        SELECT record
        TRUNCATE table
        DROP table
    They are used for:
        Data retrieval
        Data manipulation
        Data analysis
        Database administration
Data Definition Language is used to manipulate Oracle Database structures. 
    PRIMARY KEY.
Data Query Language is the SQL sublanguage used for querying data from the database.
    It is the major sublanguage used by applications to search, project, filter, join, aggregate and 
    group data for displaying application state.
    It has a single command SELECT.
Data Modification Language us the SQL language subset used for modifying data in the database.
    It includes INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE
Data Definition Language is the SQL language subset used for defining data aor altering structure
    in the database. CREATE, DROP, ALTER, RENAME, TRUNCATE, COMMENT.

DQL IN MySQL
    WHERE clause is used to filter the data from the table based on user needs
    GROUP BY clause is used in MySQL queries to organize records which have the same attribute values
    ORDER BY clause is used in MySQL queries to return the records in a sorted manner.(by defauult in ascending
    order)
    ORDER BY                                        GROUP BY
    -It ensures presentations of columns             It ensures presentation of rows
    -It is always used after the                     It is always used before the ORDER BY clause
     GROUP BY clause in SELECT statements               in SELECT statements
    -It is not mandatory to use aggregate functions  It is manadatory to used aggregate functions
    in the ORDER BY                                     in the GROUP BY
    -The output is sorted based on the              The grouping of records is done based on the similarity
    column's attribute values                       among the row's attribute values

    logical AND             logical OR
    T AND T = True          T OR T = True
    T AND F = False         T OR F = True
    F AND T = False         F OR T = True
    F AND F = False         F OR F = False

CRUD can be used for SQL and NOSQL as well.
        - CREATE & INSERT
        - READ SELECT(in SQL)
        - UPDATE - UPDATE command
        - DELETE - DELETE
SQL constraints are used to help validate data beyond just a simple
data type. Examples include:
    Not Null
    Unique
    Primary Key - combines unique and not null. There are 3 types.
                    Surrogate key - this is autogenerated in the database.
                    Natural Key - Naturally generated by the outside world
                    Composite key - combination of 2 or more columns that
                                    generate unique identifier you can use as primary key.
    Foreign Key - links a row to another table
    Default
    Check
Integrity constraints - rules/conditions defined on a database schems to maintain the accuracy,
                        consistency and reliability of data within a database.
AUTO INCREMENT/SERIAL
    AUTO INCREMENT - allows a unique number to be generated automatically when a new row
                        is inserted into a table. Used in MySQL and SQLite
    SERIAL - It is used to create and auto-incrementing integer column.PostgreSQL

CHECK
It is used to limit the range value that can be placed in a column
It determines whether the value associated with the column is valid or not with the
given criteria

Referential Integrity - monitors the relationship of primary keys and foreign keys.
                        corresponinf primary key must be available when creating a new
                        foreign key in another table.
                        does not allow the deletion of a record in a table that contains the 
                        foreign key.to delete the record in the parent table, the corresponding
                        record in the child table should be deleted first. ON DELETE CASCADE is
                        used.

CASCADE 
    -keyword used to simultenously delete or update data from both the child and parent tables
    and is used while writing the query with ON DELETE or ON UPDATE.
    ON DELETE CASCADE to the foreign keys within the child table allows us to delete the parent
    record and subsequently delete all referenced information in any reference table throught one command.
    ON UPDATE CASCADE to foreign key within the child table allows us to update the parent table as well
    with a singular command, updating parent table updates all child table info as well.

All the candidate keys other than the primary key and foreign key are called secondary keys
Secondary keys are used to uniquely identify a record.

SUBQUERIES
    They are queries that are contained in another query.

    A NESTED QUERY is a subquery found in the WHERE clause of the outer query.

    INLINE VIEWS are subqueries that occur in the FROM clause of the outer query.

    An INNER QUERY is a subquery found in the SELECT clause of the outer query.

    Subqueries perform worse than joins

JOINS
    Part of the DQL
    THETA JOIN - allows us to merge two tables based on an arbitrary condition
        SELECT *
        FROM Table1
        JOIN Table2 ON Table1.Column = Table2.Column;
    EQUI JOIN is a THETA JOIN that uses the equality operator
        SELECT *
        FROM Table 1, Table2
        WHERE Table1.Column > Table2.Column;

JDBC - Java Database Connectivity. It is a low-level API used to write Java code that 
        interacts with relational databases via SQL.

        To interact with a database we need to:
            - Obtain a JDBC driver
            - Open a connection using:
                - Database URL
                - Username
                - Password
            - Excecute some SQL statement using eith:
                -Statement
                -PreparedStatement
                -CallableStatement
            - Retrieve the results of executing the statement
            - Close the connection